With a stellar line-up of producers, engineers and co-writers behind her, Lana Del Rey appears to be unstoppable...

Despite the stylised and otherworldly nature of Lana Del Rey’s music, which continues to be far removed from what’s normally dominating the charts, she has managed to carve out a spectacularly successful career. Since her chart-topping 2012 debut Born To Die, three more albums have gone to or near the top of the charts: Ultraviolence (2014, a UK and US number one), 2015’s Honeymoon and now Lust For Life, which once again hit the top spot on both sides of the Atlantic.

The first two of these involved a large number of producers and writers, but for Honeymoon Del Rey whittled her core production team down to star producer Rick Nowels and his associate Kieron Menzies, who engineered and mixed the album and co-wrote one song. Grammy Award-winning songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and producer Nowels, who has worked with Adele, Madonna, Fleetwood Mac, Sia, and Cee-Lo Green, is once more the major force behind Lust For Life, along with Menzies and Dean Reid. However, as the album title and a smiling Del Rey on the cover suggest, the mood is a little more upbeat this time, with more expansive arrangements and several guest writers and featured artists, including legendary pop producer Max Martin, beatmakers Boi-1da and Metro Boomin’, rappers ASAP Rocky and Playboi Carti, and singers the Weeknd, Sean Ono Lennon and Stevie Nicks.

Setting The Scene

Inside Track
According to Menzies and Reid, 85 percent of the album was written and recorded at Nowels’ The Green Building studio in Santa Monica, while everything was mixed there by the two of them. Work on the new album began in 2015, immediately after the completion of Honeymoon, with a recording session for the title track at The Village Recorder in LA.

“I don’t think there was a concept at the beginning,” recalls Nowels. “It is all a collection of songs. But she was in a certain head space. I remember at the very beginning of the Honeymoon record she said: ‘I want to make a jazz album.’ This turned into songs like ‘Honeymoon’ and ‘Terrence Loves You’. They’re maybe not technically classic jazz songs, but they are her versions. Since it had to be jazz, we could not have really strong, big beats, so the beats were chilled, and there was a lot of orchestra, and every song on that album was in a minor key. But I think almost every song on the new record is in a major key. That was not a conscious decision on our part, however. Every artist wants to go into new territory, and not repeat him- or herself exactly. We knew for a long time that ‘Love’ would the opening track, and ‘Lust For Life’ would be track two, and the picture of the new album emerged as we got more songs.”

“Those two songs set the tone for the record,” Menzies adds, “and after that it was a direction that we kept in mind when we worked, and that influenced our choices of sounds and samples, and also the kind of plug-in techniques that kept occurring in the songs. This all helped give consistency. Lana has ideas in her head, which she may or may...
